---
license: >
    Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

title: The config.xml File
---

# The config.xml File

config.xml is a global configuratino file that controls many aspects
of a cordova application's behavior. This
platform-agnostic XML file is arranged based on the W3C's [Packaged
Web Apps (Widgets)](http://www.w3.org/TR/widgets/) specification, and
extended to specify core Cordova API features, plugins, and
platform-specific settings.

For projects created with the Cordova CLI (described in The
Command-Line Interface), this file can be found in the top-level
directory:

        app/config.xml

Note that before version 3.3.1-0.2.0, the file existed at `app/www/config.xml`,
and that having it here is still supported.

When using the CLI to build a project, versions of this file are
passively copied into various `platforms/` subdirectories, for example:

        app/platforms/ios/AppName/config.xml
        app/platforms/blackberry10/www/config.xml
        app/platforms/android/res/xml/config.xml

This section details global and cross-platform configuration options.
See the following sections for platform-specific options:

- [iOS Configuration](../guide/platforms/ios/config.html)
- [Android Configuration](../guide/platforms/android/config.html)
- [BlackBerry 10 Configuration](../guide/platforms/blackberry10/config.html)

In addition to the various configuration options detailed below, you
can also configure an application's core set of images for each target
platform. See [Icons and Splash Screens](images.html) for more information.

## Core Configuration Elements

This example shows the default `config.xml` generated by the CLI's
`create` command, described in [The Command-Line Interface](../guide/cli/index.html):

        <widget id="com.example.hello" version="0.0.1">
            <name>HelloWorld</name>
            <description>
                A sample Apache Cordova application that responds to the deviceready event.
            </description>
            <author email="dev@callback.apache.org" href="http://cordova.io">
                Apache Cordova Team
            </author>
            <content src="index.html" />
            <access origin="*" />
        </widget>

# widget
   Root element of the config.xml document.
    
    Attributes(type) | Description
    ---------------- | ------------
    id(string) | *Required: true* <br/> Specifies the app's reverse-domain identifier, and the `version` its full version number expressed in major/minor/patch notation.
    version(string) | *Required: true* <br/> Full version number expressed in major/minor/patch notation.
    versionCode(string) | *Required: false* <br/> **Platforms supported: Android** <br/> Alternative version for Android.
    CFBundleVersion(string) | *Required: false* <br/> **Platforms supported: iOS** <br/> Alternative version for iOS.  
    packageVersion(string) | *Required: false* <br/> **Platforms supported: Windows** <br/> Alternative version for Windows.
    xmlns(string) | *Required: true* <br/> namespace for the config.xml document.
    xmlns:cdv(string) | *Required: true* <br/> namespace prefix.
    
   Examples:

    <widget id="io.cordova.hellocordova">
    </widget>

    <widget version="0.0.1">
    </widget>

    <!-- Android -->
    <widget versionCode="0.1.3">
    </widget>

    <!-- iOS -->
    <widget CFBundleVersion="0.1.3">
    </widget>

    <!-- Windows -->
    <widget packageVersion="0.1.3">
    </widget>

    <widget xmlns="http://www.w3.org/ns/widgets">
    </widget>


## name
   Specifies the app's formal name, as it appears on the device's home screen and within app-store interfaces.

   Example:

    <widget ...>
        <name>HelloCordova</name>
    </widget>
    
## description
   Specifies metadata that may appear within app-store listings.

   Example:
   
    <widget ...>
        <description>A sample Apache Cordova application</description>
    </widget>

    
## author
   Specifies contact information that may appear within app-store lisitngs.
   
   Attributes (type) | Description
   ----------------- | ------------
   email(string) | *Required: true <br/>* Email of the author.
   href(string) | *Required: true <br/>* Website of the author.

   Examples:

    <widget ...>
        <author email="dev@cordova.apache.org" href="http://cordova.io"></author>
    </widget>

    
## content
   Optional.
   Defines the app's starting page in the top-level web assets directory. The default value is index.html, which customarily
   appears in a project's top-level www directory.
   
   Attributes (type) | Description
   ----------------- | ------------
   src(string) | *Required: true <br/>* Defines the app's starting page in the top-level web assets directory. The default value is index.html, which customarily
   appears in a project's top-level www directory.

   Example:

    <widget ...>
        <content src="startPage.html"></content>
    </widget>

    
## access
   Defines the set of external domains the app is allowed to communicate with. The default value shown above allows it to access any server. 
   See the Domain [Whitelist Guide](../guide/appdev/whitelist/index.html) for details. 

   Attributes (type) | Description
   ----------------- | ------------
   origin(string) | *Required: true <br/>* Defines the set of external domains the app is allowed to communicate with. 
   The default value shown above allows it to access any server. 
   See the Domain [Whitelist Guide](../guide/appdev/whitelist/index.html) for details. 

   Examples:

    <widget ...>
        <access origin="*"></content>
    </widget>
    
    <widget ...>
        <access origin="http://google.com"></content>
    </widget>
    
    
## preference
   Sets various optinos as pairs of name/value attributes. Each preference's name is case-insensitive. Many preferences are unique to specific platforms,
   and will be indicated as such.  
   
   Attributes (type) | Description
   ----------------- | ------------
   DisallowOverscroll(boolean) | *Default: false* <br/> **Platforms supported: iOS, Android** <br/> Set to **true** if you don't want the interface to display any feedback when users scroll past the beginning or end of content. On iOS, overscroll gestures cause content to bounce back to its original position. on Android, they produce a more subtle glowing effect along the top or bottom edge of the content. <br/>
   FullScreen(boolean) | *Default: false* <br/> Allows you to hide the status bar at the top of the screen.
   BackgroundColor(string) | *Required: false* <br/> **Platforms supported: Android, BlackBerry** <br/> Supports a four-byte hex value, with the first byte representing the alpha channel, and standard RGB values for the following three bytes. 
   HideKeyboardFormAccessoryBar(boolean) | *Default: false* <br/> **Platforms supported: BlackBerry** <br/> set to true to hide the additional toolbar that appears above the keyboard, helping users navigate from one form input to another.
   Orientation (string) | *Default: default* <br/> Allowed values: default, landscape, portait <br/> Allows you to lock orientation and prevent the interface from rotating in response to changes in orientation. <br/> **NOTE:** The default value means Cordova will strip the orientation preference entry from the platform's manifest/configuration file allowing the platform to fallback to its default behavior. For iOS, to specify both portrait & landscape mode you would use the platform specific value 'all'.

   Examples:

    <preference name="DisallowOverscroll" value="true"/>
    <preference name="Fullscreen" value="true" />
    <preference name="BackgroundColor" value="0xff0000ff"/>
    <preference name="HideKeyboardFormAccessoryBar" value="true"/>
    <preference name="Orientation" value="landscape" />

    
## feature
   If you use the CLI to build applications, you use the plugin command to enable device APIs. This does not modify the top-level config.xml file, so the <feature> element does not apply to your workflow. If you work directly in an SDK and using the platform-specific config.xml file as source, you use the <feature> tag to enable device-level APIs and external plugins. They often appear with custom values in platform-specific config.xml files. See the API Reference for details on how to specify each feature. See
   the [Plugin Development Guide](../guide/hybrid/plugins/index.html) for more information on plugins.

   Attributes (type) | Description
   ----------------- | ------------
   name(string) | *Required: true <br/>* The name of the plugin to enable.


### param
   Used to specify what certain plugin parameters such as: what package to retrieve the plugin code from, and whether the plugin code is to be initialized during the Webview's initialization.
   
   Attributes (type) | Description
   ----------------- | ------------
   name(string) | *Required: true* <br/> Allowed values: android-package, ios-package, onload. <br/> **Platforms supported: iOS, Android** <br/> 'ios-package' and 'android-package' are used to specify the name of the package (as specified by the 'value' attribute) to be used to initialize the plugin code, while 'onload' is used to specify whether the corresponding plugin (as specified in the 'value' attribute) is to be instantiated when the controller is initialized.
   value(string or boolean) | *Required: true* <br/> **Platforms supported: iOS, Android** <br/> Specifies the name of the package to be used to initialize the plugin code (when the 'name' attribute is android-package or ios-package), specifies the name of the plugin to be loaded during controller initialization (when 'name' attribute is set to 'onload').
     
   
   Examples:
    
    <!-- Here is how to specify the Device API for Android projects -->
    <feature name="Device">
        <param name="android-package" value="org.apache.cordova.device.Device" />
    </feature>
    
    <!-- Here's how the element appears for iOS projects -->
    <feature name="Device">
        <param name="ios-package" value="CDVDevice" />
        <param name="onload" value="true" />
    </feature>


## platform
   When using the CLI to build applications, it is sometimes necessary to specify preferences or other elements specific to a particular platform. Use the <platform> element to specify configuration that should only appear in a single platform-specific config.xml file.  
  
   Attributes (type) | Description
   ----------------- | ------------
   name(string) | *Required: true* <br/> The platform whose preferences are being defined.
   
   Examples:
   
    <platform name="android">
        <preference name="Fullscreen" value="true" />
    </platform>

## hook
   Represents your custom script which will be called by Cordova when
   certain action occurs (for example, after plugin is added or platform
   prepare logic is invoked). This is useful when you need to extend
   default Cordova functionality. See [Hooks Guide](../guide/appdev/hooks/index.html) for more information.
   
   Attributes (type) | Description
   ----------------- | ------------
   type(string) | *Required: true* <br/> Specifies the action during which the custom script is to be called.
   src(string) | *Required: true* <br/> Specifies the location of the script to be called when a specific action occurs.
   
   Examples:
   
    <hook type="after_plugin_install" src="scripts/afterPluginInstall.js" />
    