---
layout: post
author:
    name: Audrey So
    url: https://twitter.com/aud_rey_so
title:  "Apache Cordova 7.0.0"
categories: news
tags: news releases
---

We are happy to announce that `Apache Cordova 7.0.0` has been released!

Most notable changes include:
* If a `package.json` does not exist in your project, it will be auto-created for you when `cordova prepare` is called.
* When adding a platform or plugin, the previous default behavior of not-saving has changed to saving. Now it will automatically save that platform or plugin to your `config.xml` and `package.json`. Details about platform and plugin versions are also automatically saved in `config.xml` and `package.json`. The `--save` flag is no longer required to save. Use `--nosave` to prevent saving to `config.xml` or `package.json`.
* Fetch is now the default method for fetching platforms. Fetch uses your system `npm` to `npm install` modules into your project. The `--fetch` flag is no longer required. Use the `--nofetch` flag to revert to pre-`Cordova@7.0` behavior (`npm install` is not used to fetch modules).
* After `cordova prepare` is run, `package.json` and `config.xml` should contain identical platforms and versions.  In case of conflicts, `package.json` is given precedence over `config.xml`. For example, suppose `package.json` contains `cordova-android@6.0.0` and `config.xml` contains `cordova-android@4.0.0`. After `cordova prepare` is run, `config.xml` and `package.json` will each contain only `cordova-android@6.0.0`.
* Platforms and plugins are now required to have a `package.json` file.
* We have added support for custom platforms. This will allow future custom platforms, and modified versions of existing platforms.

	Example: 

	cordova platform add custom-platform-name

	Link to how to create your own platforms:

* A `cordova config` command has been created to `set`, `get`, `delete`, `edit`, and `list` global Cordova options. For example, you can use the following command `cordova config set <key> <value>` to set the value of `autosave` or `fetch` to `true` or `false`. 

 	In the following case, you are turning off `autosave` as the default setting. Example: 

	cordova config set autosave false

	In the following case, you are turning off `fetch` as the default setting.
	Example:

	cordova config set fetch false

	In addition, the `cordova config` command supports the `browserify` setting, which allows the JavaScript of plugins to be loaded at build time compared to run time. For instance, if the `browserify` value is not explicility passed in by the user, the `cordova config` command will automatically set the `browserify` value saved in `~/.config/configstore/` to be saved `globally`. Users can get and set `browserify`. Example:
	
	cordova config get browserify
	cordova config set browserify true

* Dropped support for node 0.x. Only node versions 4.0 and up are supported.
* Dropped support for wp8 (windows phone 8).
* `cordova-windows` : dropped support for any versions older than 4.0.0.
* `cordova-android` : dropped support for any versions older than 5.0.0.
* `cordova-ios` : dropped support for any versions older than 4.0.0.
* `cordova-osx` : dropped support for any versions older than 4.0.0.
 