---
layout: post
author:
    name: Niklas Merz
    url: https://twitter.com/niklasmaerz
title:  "Cordova needs you in 2025! Let's start with a meetup"
categories: announcements
tags: news
---

The beginning of a new year is always a good opportunity for a project to reflect on the past year and make plans for the one ahead. As we wrapped up 2024, we had an idea that we’re excited to share: hosting another community meetup for Cordova.

This meetup will be an excellent chance to recap the recent releases and highlight some upcoming tasks. 2024 saw some promising contributions from new developers, and we’ve noticed growing interest in our project. This makes the meetup the perfect time to onboard new contributors and strengthen our community.

Without more committers, it will become increasingly challenging to maintain a steady release cycle and address the needs of our users. By bringing together experienced contributors and newcomers, we aim to foster collaboration and make future releases smoother. The release process is vital but can often feel overwhelming within the ASF framework. To address this, we are exploring ways to simplify it and provide clearer guidance to our community, making participation more accessible for everyone. **Stay tuned!**

# Joining the Meetup

The meetup will be held virtually on Jitsi for participants worldwide. After signing up on our **[meetup page](https://lu.ma/zdsnddl2)**, you’ll receive detailed instructions on how to join. Whether you’re a seasoned contributor or just starting to explore Cordova, we encourage you to participate.

Let’s kick off 2025 with a strong sense of community and a shared vision for Cordova’s future. We’re looking forward to seeing you there!

# Agenda 

<!--more-->

- Introduction

- Short recap of 2024

    - Platform Releases
        - cordova-electron@4.0.0 release
        - cordova-android@13.0.0 release
        - cordova-ios@7.1.0-7.1.1 release
        - cordova-ios@8.0.0-beta.1 release
    - Plugin Releases
        - File
        - Device
        - Camera
    - Other Points
        - Preparing cordova-android@14.0.0
        - Community Survey
        - User Feedback of 2024

- What's Next in 2025

    - Platform Releases
        - cordova-ios@8.0.0
        - cordova-android@14.0.0
    - **Community Release Livestream**
    - Other Topic Points
        - Google Android release timeline changes and what it means for Cordova
        - User Feedback for 2025

- Community Interest & Feedback

    - Interest in Contributing
        - **Why do we need more people to contribute?**
        - 
    - How do you feel about the state of Cordova?
    - What areas do you find needing attention?

- Wrap-Up