---
license: Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
         or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
         distributed with this work for additional information
         regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
         to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
         "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
         with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

           http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

         Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
         software distributed under the License is distributed on an
         "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
         KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
         specific language governing permissions and limitations
         under the License.
---

# BlackBerry Plugins

This guide shows how to develop an Echo plugin on BlackBerry.  The
Plugin Development Guide provides a broad overview with which you
should already be familiar, and this guide picks up where it leaves
off.  In addition, download the [Cordova BlackBerry
repository](https://git-wip-us.apache.org/repos/asf?p=cordova-blackberry-webworks.git;a=summary).

The `Cordova-BlackBerry` project allows you to deploy to BlackBerry
devices such as the Torch, Bold, and Playbook. The Playbook uses a
different code base than other BlackBerry handheld devices, for which
you need to duplicate your development efforts.  This guide focuses on
the handheld devices rather than tablets. (In the future, this guide
should cover both platforms.)

The Echo plugin essentially returns whatever message a user provides
to the `window.echo` function:

    window.echo = function(str, callback) {
        cordova.exec(callback, function(err) {
            callback('Nothing to echo.');
        }, "Echo", "echo", [str]);
    };

## Modifying plugins.xml

Your project's `www/plugins.xml` folder contains all of the necessary
references to your Cordova project's plugins. Add an
additional reference so that when `cordova.exec` is called, Cordova
knows how to map the `Echo` argument of `cordova.exec` to the `Echo`
class that we want to write natively:

    <plugins>
      ...
      <plugin name="Echo" value="org.apache.cordova.echo.Echo"/>
      ...
    </plugins>

## Adding Echo.java

If you notice the structure of the value attribute, you'll see a
defined path that leads to the Echo plugin. In the root folder of the
Cordova BlackBerry WebWorks repo, look for a folder called framework.
This folder contains all of the source code that runs natively on the
BlackBerry. Navigate to `framework/ext/src/org/apache/cordova`. At
this point, you'll see all of the plugin folders, inside of which is
the source code. So add the folder echo to
`framework/ext/src/org/apache/cordova/echo` and create a file called
`Echo.java` at `framework/ext/src/org/apache/cordova/echo/Echo.java`.

## Writing Echo.java

The basic idea behind writing a plugin is to create a class that
extends the Plugin class and have a method called `execute` to return
a `PluginResult` class. Any call to `cordova.exec` passes in the
action to execute within the class, as well as the arguments. In this
case, "echo" is the action we want to execute within the class "Echo"
and [str] are the arguments we are passing in.

    package org.apache.cordova.echo;

    import org.apache.cordova.api.Plugin;
    import org.apache.cordova.api.PluginResult;
    import org.apache.cordova.json4j.JSONArray;
    import org.apache.cordova.json4j.JSONException;
    import org.apache.cordova.json4j.JSONObject;
    /**
     * A simple plugin to demonstrate how to build a plugin for BlackBerry
     * Basically echos back the msg that a user calls to this plugin
     */
    public final class Echo extends Plugin {

        public static final String echo = "echo";

        public PluginResult execute(String action, JSONArray args, String callbackId) {
            PluginResult result = new PluginResult(PluginResult.Status.INVALID_ACTION, "Echo: Invalid action:" + action);
            if(action.equals(echo)){
                try {
                    String theMsg = args.getString(0);
                    if(theMsg!= null || theMsg.length()>0){
                        result = new PluginResult(PluginResult.Status.OK, theMsg);
                    }else{
                        result = new PluginResult(PluginResult.Status.ERROR, "Nothing to echo.");
                    }
                } catch (JSONException e) {
                    result = new PluginResult(PluginResult.Status.JSON_EXCEPTION, e.getMessage());
                }
            }

            return result;
        }

    }

So if we look at the code above, we can see that within the execute
method, we are first looking for what actions are coming in. The Echo
plugin has only one action, `echo`, so we will be only checking for
that. If our plugin had more actions, it's simply a matter of adding
more conditional tests to check for those actions.

We are then going to grab the message coming in from the arguments
which is supplied by the args parameter.  We can grab the first
argument by simply doing `String theMsg = args.getString(0);`.

We will do some error checking and if the message looks okay, we will
instantiate a new PluginResult with an ok status:
`PluginResult.Status.OK` and return the message: `theMsg`. After this,
we return the result which to be passed back to JavaScript to be fired
in the success callback. If something fails, we can return various
status exceptions like `PluginResult.Status.ERROR`,
`PluginResult.Status.JSON_EXCEPTION`, or
`PluginResult.Status.INVALID_ACTION`. When passed back, these types of
results fire the fail callback in JavaScript.

## Updating the .jar in your project's www folder

The added `Echo.java` needs to be updated in your project.  To build
the `.jar` file, Navigate to the BlackBerry WebWorks repo's root
directory and run the `ant` command:

    ant update -Dproject.path="~/path_to_my_project"

This builds a new `.jar` file in the `build/ext` directory. Copy the
`build/ext/cordova.jar` file into your `project/www/ext` directory.

If all goes well, that allows you to use the Echo plugin in
BlackBerry.
