---
license: Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
         or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
         distributed with this work for additional information
         regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
         to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
         "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
         with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
         
           http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
         
         Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
         software distributed under the License is distributed on an
         "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
         KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
         specific language governing permissions and limitations
         under the License.
---

# Blackberry Command-line Tools

The `cordova` command-line utility is a high-level tool that allows
you to build applications across several platforms at once. An older
version of the Cordova framework provides sets of command-line tools
specific to each platform. To use them as an alternative to the CLI,
you need to download this version of Cordova from
[cordova.apache.org](http://cordova.apache.org). The download contains
separate archives for each platform. Expand the platform you wish to
target. The tools described here are typically available in the
top-level `bin` directory, otherwise consult the __README__ file for
more detailed directions.

## Create a project

Run the `create` command, specifying the existing path to the project,
the reverse-domain-style package identifier, and the app's display
name.  Here is the syntax for both Mac and Windows:

    $ /path/to/cordova-blackberry-webworks/bin/create /path/to/my_new_project com.example.project_name ProjectName
    $ /path/to/cordova-blackberry-webworks/bin/create.bat /path/to/my_new_project com.example.project_name ProjectName

__NOTE:__ The Blackberry platform ignores the package name placeholder
(`com.example.project_name`), but it's still required for use by
cross-platform tools.

## Build a project

For BlackBerry projects, please make sure you customize the
`project.properties` file in your Cordova project's root directory.
You need to do so to supply your BlackBerry signing key password, and
specify locations for the BlackBerry WebWorks SDK and BlackBerry
simulator executables.

    $ /path/to/my_new_project/cordova/build <platform>
    $ /path/to/my_new_project/cordova/build.bat <platform>

## Launch simulator

For BlackBerry projects, please make sure you customize the
`project.properties` file in the root of your Cordova project folder.
You need to do so to supply your BlackBerry signing key password, and
specify locations for the BlackBerry WebWorks SDK and BlackBerry
simulator executables.

    $ /path/to/my_new_project/cordova/run <platform>

and then choose 'no' when prompted with:

    Do you have a BlackBerry device connected to your computer? (y/n)
    $ /path/to/my_new_project/cordova/run <platform>

and then choose 'no' when prompted with:

    Do you have a BlackBerry device connected to your computer? (y/n)

## Logging

Unfortunately, streaming logs directly from the device is currently
unsupported. However, BlackBerry offers built-in Web Inspector support
for Playbook and BlackBerry smartphone devices running BlackBerry OS
7.0 and above. You can also access your application's logs (including
any calls to `console.log`) on your device by holding down the ''ALT''
key from the home screen and typing ''lglg'' keys.

