---
license: Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
         or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
         distributed with this work for additional information
         regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
         to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
         "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
         with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

           http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

         Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
         software distributed under the License is distributed on an
         "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
         KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
         specific language governing permissions and limitations
         under the License.
---

# The config.xml File

Many aspects of an app's behavior can be controlled with a global
configuration file, `config.xml`, that is placed in the top-level web
asset directory along with the app's home page.  This
platform-agnostic XML file is formatted based on the W3C's [Packaged
Web Apps (Widgets)](http://www.w3.org/TR/widgets/) specification, and
extended to specify core Cordova API features, plugins, and
platform-specific settings.

For projects created with the Cordova CLI (described in The
Command-line Interface), this file can be found in the top-level `www`
directory.  Using the CLI to build a project regenerates versions of
this file in various subdirectories within `platforms`. If you use the
CLI to create a project, but then shift your workflow to an SDK, the
platform-specific file serves as a source.

This section details global configuration options. See the following
sections for platform-specific options:

- iOS Configuration
- Android Configuration
- BlackBerry Configuration

## Core Configuration Elements

This example shows the default `config.xml` generated by the CLI's
`create` command, described in The Command-line Interface:

        <widget id="com.example.hello" version="0.0.1">
            <name>HelloWorld</name>
            <description>
                A sample Apache Cordova application that responds to the deviceready event.
            </description>
            <author email="dev@callback.apache.org" href="http://cordova.io">
                Apache Cordova Team
            </author>
            <content src="index.html" />
            <access origin="*" />
            <preference name="fullscreen" value="true" />
            <preference name="webviewbounce" value="true" />
        </widget>

The following configuration elements appear in the top-level
`config.xml` file, and are supported across all supported Cordova
platforms:

- The `<widget>` element's `id` attribute provides the app's
  reverse-domain identifier, and the `version` its full version number
  expressed in major/minor/patch notation.

  For Android builds, an optional `versionCode` attribute allows you
  to express the version number
  [as an integer](http://developer.android.com/guide/publishing/versioning.html).

- The `<name>` element specifies the app's formal name, as it appears
  on the device's home screen and within app-store interfaces.

  If you are targeting the BlackBerry platform, use only Latin characters.

- The `<description>` and `<author>` elements specify metadata and
  contact information that may appear within app-store listings.

  If you are targeting the BlackBerry platform, keep the description short.

- The optional `<content>` element defines your application's starting
  page in the top-level web assets directory. The default value is
  `index.html`, which customarily appears in a project's top-level
  `www` directory.

- `<access>` elements define the set of external domains the app is
  allowed to communicate with. The default value shown above allows it
  to access any server. See the Domain Whitelist Guide for details.

- The `<preference>` tag sets various options, many of which are
  unique to specific platforms. The following preferences apply
  globally:

<!-- PGB 

  - `phonegap-version` specifies the version of PhoneGap to use when
    building the app using the PhoneGap Build interface, or the CLI's
    `remote` feature described in The Command-line Interface. Example:

        <preference name="phonegap-version" value="2.9.0" />

    Currently supported versions are __2.0.0__, __2.1.0__, __2.2.0__,
    __2.3.0__, __2.5.0__, __2.7.0__, and __2.9.0__ (the default).  all
    versions prior to __2.0.0__ are deprecated. Specifying an
    unsupported version number prevents the project from building.

-->

  - `orientation` allows you to fix orientation and prevent changes
    from rotating the interface. Possible values are `default`,
    `landscape`, or `portrait`. Example:

        <preference name="orientation" value="landscape" />

    __NOTE:__ The `default` value means _both_ landscape and portrait
    orientations are enabled.  If you want to use each platform's
    default settings (usually portrait-only), leave this tag out of
    the `config.xml` file.

  - `fullscreen` allows you to hide the status bar at the top of the
    screen. The default value is `false`. Example:

        <preference name="fullscreen" value="true" />

## The `<feature>` Element

If you use the CLI to build applications, you use the `plugin` command
to enable device APIs. This does not modify the top-level `config.xml`
file, so the `<feature>` element does not apply to your workflow. If
you are working directly in an SDK and using the platform-specific
`config.xml` file as source, you use the `<feature>` tag to enable
device-level APIs and external plugins. They typically appear in this
form:

        <feature name="Plugin" value="PluginID" />

They often appear with custom values in platform-specific `config.xml`
files. For example, here is how to specify the Device API for Android
projects:

        <feature name="Device">
            <param name="android-package" value="org.apache.cordova.device.Device" />
        </feature>

Here is how the element appears for iOS projects:

        <feature name="Device">
            <param name="ios-package" value="CDVDevice" />
        </feature>

See the API Reference for details on how to access each feature. See
the Plugin Development Guide for more information about plugins.
