---
license: Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
         or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
         distributed with this work for additional information
         regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
         to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
         "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
         with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

           http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

         Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
         software distributed under the License is distributed on an
         "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
         KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
         specific language governing permissions and limitations
         under the License.
---

# The config.xml File

Many aspects of an app's behavior can be controlled with a global
configuration file, `config.xml`, that is placed in the top-level web
asset directory along with the app's home page.  This
platform-agnostic XML file is formatted based on the W3C's [Packaged
Web Apps (Widgets)](http://www.w3.org/TR/widgets/) specification, and
extended to specify core Cordova API features, plugins, and
platform-specific settings.

For projects created with the Cordova CLI (described in The
Command-line Interface), this file can be found in the top-level `www`
directory.  Using the CLI to build a project regenerates versions of
this file in various subdirectories within `platforms`. If you use the
CLI to create a project, but then shift your workflow to an SDK, the
platform-specific file serves as a source.

This section details global configuration options. See the following
sections for platform-specific options:

- iOS Configuration
- Android Configuration
- BlackBerry Configuration

## Core Configuration Elements

This example shows the default `config.xml` generated by the CLI's
`create` command, described in The Command-line Interface, along with
a custom icon file:

        <widget id="com.example.hello" version="0.0.1">
            <name>HelloWorld</name>
            <description>
                A sample Apache Cordova application that responds to the deviceready event.
            </description>
            <author email="dev@callback.apache.org" href="http://cordova.io">
                Apache Cordova Team
            </author>
            <content src="index.html" />
            <access origin="*" />
            <preference name="fullscreen" value="true" />
            <preference name="webviewbounce" value="true" />
            <icon src="app_icon.png" />
        </widget>

The following configuration elements appear in the top-level
`config.xml` file, and are supported across all supported Cordova
platforms:

- The `<widget>` element's `id` attribute provides the app's
  reverse-domain identifier, and the `version` its full version number
  expressed in major/minor/patch notation.

  For Android builds, an optional `versionCode` attribute allows you
  to express the version number
  [as an integer](http://developer.android.com/guide/publishing/versioning.html).

- The `<name>` element specifies the app's formal name, as it appears
  on the device's home screen and within app-store interfaces.

  If you are targeting the BlackBerry platform, use only Latin characters.

- The `<description>` and `<author>` elements specify metadata and
  contact information that may appear within app-store listings.

  If you are targeting the BlackBerry platform, keep the description short.

- The optional `<content>` element defines your application's starting
  page in the top-level web assets directory. The default value is
  `index.html`, which customarily appears in a project's top-level
  `www` directory.

- `<access>` elements define the set of external domains the app is
  allowed to communicate with. The default value shown above allows it
  to access any server. See the Domain Whitelist Guide for details.

- The `<preference>` tag sets various options, many of which are
  unique to specific platforms. The following preferences apply
  globally:

<!-- PGB 

  - `phonegap-version` specifies the version of PhoneGap to use when
    building the app using the PhoneGap Build interface, or the CLI's
    `remote` feature described in The Command-line Interface. Example:

        <preference name="phonegap-version" value="2.9.0" />

    Currently supported versions are __2.0.0__, __2.1.0__, __2.2.0__,
    __2.3.0__, __2.5.0__, __2.7.0__, and __2.9.0__ (the default).  all
    versions prior to __2.0.0__ are deprecated. Specifying an
    unsupported version number prevents the project from building.

-->

  - `orientation` allows you to fix orientation and prevent changes
    from rotating the interface. Possible values are `default`,
    `landscape`, or `portrait`. Example:

        <preference name="orientation" value="landscape" />

    __NOTE:__ The `default` value means _both_ landscape and portrait
    orientations are enabled.  If you want to use each platform's
    default settings (usually portrait-only), leave this tag out of
    the `config.xml` file.

  - `fullscreen` allows you to hide the status bar at the top of the
    screen. The default value is `false`. Example:

        <preference name="fullscreen" value="true" />

## The `<feature>` Element

If you use the CLI to build applications, you use the `plugin` command
to enable device APIs. This does not modify the top-level `config.xml`
file, so the `<feature>` element does not apply to your workflow. If
you are working directly in an SDK and using the platform-specific
`config.xml` file as source, you use the `<feature>` tag to enable
device-level APIs and external plugins. They typically appear in this
form:

        <feature name="Plugin" value="PluginID" />

They often appear with custom values in platform-specific `config.xml`
files. For example, here is how to specify the Device API for Android
projects:

        <feature name="Device">
            <param name="android-package" value="org.apache.cordova.device.Device" />
        </feature>

Here is how the element appears for iOS projects:

        <feature name="Device">
            <param name="ios-package" value="CDVDevice" />
        </feature>

See the API Reference for details on how to access each feature. See
the Plugin Development Guide for more information about plugins.

## Icons and Splash Screens

<!-- !!!

 ### Icon Support

* `<icon>`: You can have zero or more of these elements present in
  your `config.xml`. If you do not specify a icon then the PhoneGap
  logo will be used as your application's icon.

  * `src`: (required) specifies the location of the image file,
    relative to your `www` directory

  * `width`: (optional) but recommended to include, width in pixels

  * `height`: (optional) but recommended to include, height in pixels

 #### Usage and Additional Information:

Unless otherwise specified in a config.xml, each platform will try to
use the default `icon.png` during compilation. To define platform
specific icons please use the guide provided below.

Icon files should be the file formats specified in the examples below,
other file types are not guaranteed to work across platforms.

 #### Default

The default icon must be named `icon.png` and must reside in the root
of your application folder.

        <icon src="icon.png" />



 # Using config.xml

Apps built using Adobe PhoneGap Build can be set up either through
our web interface, or by using a `config.xml`. The `config.xml` file,
as specified in the [W3C widget
specification](http://www.w3.org/TR/widgets/), allows developers to
easily specify metadata about their applications. You can see a sample
`config.xml` with our [PhoneGap
Start](https://github.com/phonegap/phonegap-start/blob/master/www/config.xml)
application.

One thing to note: please ensure that your `config.xml` file is at the
top level of your application (the same level as your `index.html`
file). Otherwise it will not be loaded correctly.

We're continually adding features to cour `config.xml` support, to
give PhoneGap Build developers more power to customize their apps. If
there are any specific features you'd like to see support for, [please
let us
know](http://getsatisfaction.com/nitobi/products/nitobi_phonegap_build).

 ## Other Useful Elements

 #### Windows Phone

We support two icons for Windows Phone, a regular icon and a tile
image.

        <icon src="icons/winphone/icon.png" gap:platform="winphone" />
        <icon src="icons/winphone/tileicon.png" gap:platform="winphone" gap:role="background" />

 #### WebOS 

WebOS supports a default icon and a mini icon which can be used for
notifications.

        <icon src="icons/webos/icon.png" gap:platform="webos" />
        <icon src="icons/webos/miniicon.png" gap:platform="webos" gap:role="mini" />

 ### Splash Screens

You can have zero or more of these elements present in your
`config.xml`. This element can have `src`, `gap:platform`, `width` and
`height` attributes, just like the `<icon>` element above. Like icon
files, your splash screens should be saved as `png` files.

	<gap:splash src="splash/ios/Default-568h@2x~iphone.png" gap:platform="ios" width="320" height="480" />

 #### Usage and Additional Information:

Unless otherwise specified in a config.xml, each platform will try to
use the default `splash.png` during compilation. To define platform
specific splash screens please use the guide provided below.

<!-- QUERY: is there a default splash.png, like icon.png? -->

Splash files should be the file formats specified in the examples
below. Any other file type is not guaranteed to work across platforms.

 ##### Warning:

If you do not supply the `gap:platform` attribute, the referenced
image will be copied to ALL platforms, increasing the size of their
application packages.

 #### Default

The default splash must be named `splash.png` and must reside in the
root of your application folder.

        <gap:splash src="splash.png" />

 #### Windows Phone

Windows Phone supports a single splash image and can be defined as
below.  Unlike the other supported platforms, Windows Phone splash
screen should be in `jpg` format

        <gap:splash src="splash/winphone/splash.jpg" gap:platform="winphone" />

 ### Custom URL Schemes

iOS Only. Allows registration of [custom URL
schemes](https://developer.apple.com/library/ios/documentation/iPhone/Conceptual/iPhoneOSProgrammingGuide/AdvancedAppTricks/AdvancedAppTricks.html#//apple_ref/doc/uid/TP40007072-CH7-SW50).

        <gap:url-scheme name="com.acme.myscheme" role="None">
          <scheme>pgbr</scheme>
          <scheme>pgbw</scheme>
        </gap:url-scheme>

* multiple `gap:url-scheme` elements can be present.

* `name`, optional, defaults to the application bundle id. This has to
  be unique. If a duplicate is found the build will fail.

* `role` must be `Editor`, `Viewer`, `Shell` or `None`, optional,
  defaults to `None`.

* at least one `scheme` must be present.

 ### Features 

* `<feature>`: the feature element can be used to specify which
features your application is using. If you specify features of the
PhoneGap API, those will be expanded to the appropriate permissions
for you application.

 #### Custom Debug Server

The `debug-server` feature allows you to use a custom Weinre instance
for your application. By default PhoneGap Build uses
`http://debug.build.phonegap.com` however this can be changed by
adding the following to your `config.xml`.

        <feature name="debug-server" required="true">
           <param name="domain" value="http://debug.custom.com"/>
           <param name="key" value="some_unique_key"/>
        </feature>

Don't forget to change the domain and key to the appropriate values.

 #### API Features

Currently supported through this interface are the following feature names:

* `http://api.phonegap.com/1.0/battery`

  * maps to `android:BROADCAST_STICKY` permission

* `http://api.phonegap.com/1.0/camera`

  * maps to `android:CAMERA`, `winphone:ID_CAP_ISV_CAMERA`, and
    `winphone:ID_HW_FRONTCAMERA` permissions

* `http://api.phonegap.com/1.0/contacts`

  * maps to `android:READ_CONTACTS`, `android:WRITE_CONTACTS`,
    `android:GET_ACCOUNTS`, and `winphone:ID_CAP_CONTACTS` permissions

* `http://api.phonegap.com/1.0/file`

  * maps to `WRITE_EXTERNAL_STORAGE` permission

* `http://api.phonegap.com/1.0/geolocation`

  * maps to `android:ACCESS_COARSE_LOCATION`,
    `android:ACCESS_FINE_LOCATION`,
    `android:ACCESS_LOCATION_EXTRA_COMMANDS`, and
    `winphone:ID_CAP_LOCATION` permissions

* `http://api.phonegap.com/1.0/media`

  * maps to `android:RECORD_AUDIO`, `android:RECORD_VIDEO`,
    `android:MODIFY_AUDIO_SETTINGS`, and `winphone:ID_CAP_MICROPHONE`
    permissions

* `http://api.phonegap.com/1.0/network`

  * maps to `android:ACCESS_NETWORK_STATE`, and
    `winphone:ID_CAP_NETWORKING` permissions

* `http://api.phonegap.com/1.0/notification`

  * maps to `VIBRATE` permission

* `http://api.phonegap.com/1.0/device`

  * maps to `winphone:ID_CAP_IDENTITY_DEVICE` permission

 #### Usage

        <!-- If you do not want any permissions to be added to your app, add the
            following tag to your config.xml; you will still have the INTERNET
            permission on your app, which PhoneGap requires. -->
        <preference name="permissions" value="none"/>

        <!-- to enable individual permissions use the following examples -->
        <feature name="http://api.phonegap.com/1.0/battery"/>
        <feature name="http://api.phonegap.com/1.0/camera"/>
        <feature name="http://api.phonegap.com/1.0/contacts"/>
        <feature name="http://api.phonegap.com/1.0/file"/>
        <feature name="http://api.phonegap.com/1.0/geolocation"/>
        <feature name="http://api.phonegap.com/1.0/media"/>
        <feature name="http://api.phonegap.com/1.0/network"/>
        <feature name="http://api.phonegap.com/1.0/notification"/>

 ### Plugins

* `<gap:plugin>`: specifies a PhoneGap plugin for PhoneGap Build to
  include in your generated apps.

At present, to include a plugin, you will to ensure:

* the plugin is supported by PhoneGap Build; and

* any JavaScript script tags are present in your `index.html` file.

More details, including a list of available plugins, are in our
[plugins documentation](/docs/plugins).

-->
