---
license: Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
         or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
         distributed with this work for additional information
         regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
         to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
         "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
         with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

           http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

         Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
         software distributed under the License is distributed on an
         "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
         KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
         specific language governing permissions and limitations
         under the License.
---

# Windows Phone 8 Platform Guide

This guide shows how to set up your SDK development environment to
deploy Cordova apps for Windows Phone devices.  It focuses on Windows
Phone 8, but provides additional details on how to support Windows
Phone 7.

It shows how to use either Windows Phone-specific shell tools to
generate and build apps, or the cross-platform Cordova CLI discussed
in The Command-Line Interface.  (See the Overview for a comparison of
these development workflows.) This section also shows how to open
Cordova apps so that you can modify them within Visual Studio.
Regardless of which approach you take, you need to install the Windows
Phone SDK, as described below.

See the following for details specific to the Windows Phone platform:

- Windows Phone 8 Plugins
- Upgrading Windows Phone 8

For the Windows Phone 8 platform, the Cordova WebView relies on
Internet Explorer 10 as its rendering engine, so as a practical matter
you can use IE10's powerful debugger to test any web content that
doesn't invoke Cordova APIs.  The Windows Phone Developer Blog
provides
[helpful guidance](http://blogs.windows.com/windows_phone/b/wpdev/archive/2012/11/15/adapting-your-webkit-optimized-site-for-internet-explorer-10.aspx)
on how to support IE10 along with comparable WebKit browsers.

## Requirements and Support

You need the following:

- A 64-bit version of Windows 8 Pro, either an installation disk or an
  _ISO_ disk image file. An evaluation version is available on the
  [Microsoft Developer Network](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-US/evalcenter/jj554510).
  The Pro version is necessary to run the device emulator.

- The [Windows Phone SDK](https://dev.windowsphone.com/en-us/downloadsdk).

To develop Cordova apps for Windows Phone devices, you may use a PC
running Windows, but you may also develop on a Mac, either by running
a virtual machine environment or by using Boot Camp to dual-boot a
Windows partition. Consult these resources to set up the required
Windows development environment on a Mac:

- __VMWare Fusion__: To set up the Windows 8 virtual machine, follow
  the instructions provided by the
  [Microsoft Developer Network](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-US/library/windows/apps/jj945426),
  then see Configuring VMWare Fusion for information on preparing the
  virtual environment to run the emulator bundled with the SDK.

- __Parallels Desktop__: To set up the Windows 8 virtual machine,
  follow the instructions provided by the
  [Microsoft Developer Network](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-US/library/windows/apps/jj945424),
  then see Configuring Parallels Desktop for information on preparing
  the virtual environment to run the emulator bundled with the SDK.
  
<!--
- __VirtualBox__: To set up the Windows 8 virtual machine, follow the
  installation instructions provided by the [Microsoft Developer
  Network](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-US/library/windows/apps/jj945425).

  2DO: virtualBox doesn't work yet; any extra config info?
-->

- __Boot Camp__: To set up the Windows 8 partition, follow the
  installation instructions provided by the [Microsoft Developer
  Network](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-US/library/windows/apps/jj945423).
  
If you are developing on a PC, its processor must support
virtualization (_VT-x_ on Intel) and [Second Level Address Translation
(SLAT)](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Second_Level_Address_Translation).
Consult [Intel's list of supporting
processors](http://ark.intel.com/Products/VirtualizationTechnology).
Virtualization is typically disabled by default, so you need to enable
it in your BIOS settings. The PC should have at least 6.5GB of free
hard disk space, and 4GB of RAM.

## Using Cordova Shell Tools

If you want to use Cordova's Windows Phone-centered shell tools in
conjunction with the SDK, you have two basic options:

- Access them locally from project code generated by the CLI. They are
  available in the `platforms/wp8/cordova` directory after you add the
  `wp8` platform as described below.

- Download them from a separate distribution at
  [cordova.apache.org](http://cordova.apache.org).  The Cordova
  distribution contains separate archives for each platform.  Be sure
  to expand the appropriate archive, `cordova-wp8\wp8` in this case,
  within an empty directory.  The relevant batch utilities are
  available in the top-level `bin` directory. (Consult the __README__
  file if necessary for more detailed directions.)

These shell tools allow you to create, build, and run Windows Phone
apps.  For information on the additional command-line interface that
enables plugin features across all platforms, see Using Plugman to
Manage Plugins. See Application Plugins for guidance on how to develop
plugins, and Windows Phone 8 Plugins for details specific to the Windows
Phone platform.

## Install the SDK

Install the latest version of the Windows Phone SDK from the
__Downloads__ area of
[dev.windowsphone.com](https://dev.windowsphone.com/en-us/downloadsdk).
You may also install more recent emulator update packages.

![](img/guide/platforms/wp8/wp8_downloadSDK.png)

## Create a New Project

At this point, to create a new project you can choose between the
cross-platform CLI tool described in The Command-Line Interface, or
the set of Windows Phone-specific shell tools. From within a
source-code directory, here's the CLI approach:

        > cordova create hello com.example.hello HelloWorld
        > cd hello
        > cordova platform add wp8

Here's the corresponding lower-level shell-tool approach:

        C:\path\to\cordova-wp8\bin\create.bat C:\path\to\new\hello com.example.hello HelloWorld

## Build the Project

If you are using the CLI in development, the project directory's
top-level `www` directory contains the source files. Run either of
these within the project directory to rebuild the app:

        > cordova build
        > cordova build wp8   # do not rebuild other platforms

If you are using the Windows Phone-specific shell tools in
development, there is a different approach.  Once you generate the
project, the default app's source is available in the
`projects\wp8\www` subdirectory. Subsequent commands are available in
the `cordova` subdirectory at the same level.

The `build` command cleans project files and rebuilds the app.  The first
example generates debugging information, and the second signs the apps
for release:

        C:\path\to\project\cordova\build.bat --debug        
        C:\path\to\project\cordova\build.bat --release

The `clean` command helps flush out directories in preparation for the
next `build`:

        C:\path\to\project\cordova\clean.bat

## Deploy to Emulator

At this point you can use the `cordova` CLI utility to deploy the
application to the emulator from the command line:

        > cordova emulate wp8

Otherwise use the alternate shell interface:

        C:\path\to\project\cordova\run

By default, the `run` script invokes the emulator flag, and accepts
additional build flags, for which `--debug` provides the default:

        C:\path\to\project\cordova\run --emulator --debug
        C:\path\to\project\cordova\run --emulator --release
        C:\path\to\project\cordova\run --emulator --nobuild

The emulator launches a device image with the app installed. From the
home screen, navigate to the apps panel to launch the __HelloWorld__
app. This shows the app launching with its splash screen followed by
its main interface:

![](img/guide/platforms/wp8/wp8_emulator.png)

The emulator's basic controls on the top-right of the device screen
allow you to toggle between portrait and landscape orientation. The
__>>__ button opens more controls that allow you to test more complex
orientations and gestures:

![](img/guide/platforms/wp8/wp8_emulator_orient.png)

These advanced controls also allow you to modify the device's
location or to simulate sequences of movements:

![](img/guide/platforms/wp8/wp8_emulator_loc.png)

## Deploy to Device

Before testing your application on a device, the device must be
registered. Consult [Microsoft's
documentation][1]
for details on how to deploy and test on Windows Phone 8. Also, make
sure the phone is connected to the computer, and the screen is
unlocked.

Then run the following CLI command to run the app on the device:

    > cordova run wp8

It corresponds to this lower-level shell command:

    C:\path\to\project\cordova\run --device

Alternately, if you are working in Visual Studio, select __Windows
Phone Device__ from the drop-down menu at the top, then press the
green __Play__ button nearby or else type __F5__.

## Modify the Project in the SDK

Once you build a Cordova app as described above, you can open it with
the SDK. The various `build` commands generates a Visual Studio
Solution (_.sln_) file. Open the file to modify the project within
Visual Studio. The web-based source code is available within the
project's `www` directory. Along with other tools the SDK provides,
the control below the menu allows you to launch the app in a Windows
Phone emulator:

![](img/guide/platforms/wp8/wp8_vs.png)

Consult the Overview for advice on how to use Cordova's command-line
tools or the SDK in your workflow. The Cordova CLI relies on
cross-platform source code that routinely overwrites the
platform-specific files used by the SDK. If you want to work within
the SDK, use the lower-level shell tools as an alternative to the CLI.

[1]: http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windowsphone/develop/ff402565.aspx
