---
license: Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
         or more contributor license agreements. See the NOTICE file
         distributed with this work for additional information
         regarding copyright ownership. The ASF licenses this file
         to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
         "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
         with the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at

           http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

         Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
         software distributed under the License is distributed on an
         "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
         KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the
         specific language governing permissions and limitations
         under the License.
---

# Android Plugins

This section provides details for how to implement native plugin code
on the Android platform. Before reading this, see Application Plugins
for an overview of the plugin's structure and its common JavaScript
interface. This section continues to demonstrate the sample _echo_
plugin that communicates from the Cordova webview to the native
platform and back.  For another sample, see also the comments in
[CordovaPlugin.java](https://github.com/apache/cordova-android/blob/master/framework/src/org/apache/cordova/CordovaPlugin.java).

Android plugins are based on Cordova-Android, which consists of an
Android WebView with hooks attached to it.  Plugins are represented as
class mappings in the `config.xml` file.  A plugin consists of at
least one Java class that extends the `CordovaPlugin` class,
overriding one of its `execute` methods. As best practice, the plugin
should also handle `pause` and `resume` events, along with any message
passing between plugins.  Plugins with long-running requests,
background activity such as media playback, listeners, or internal
state should implement the `onReset()` method as well. It executes
when the `WebView` navigates to a new page or refreshes, which reloads
the JavaScript.

## Plugin Class Mapping

The plugin's JavaScript interface uses the `cordova.exec` method as
follows:

        exec(<successFunction>, <failFunction>, <service>, <action>, [<args>]);

This marshals a request from the WebView to the Android native side,
effectively calling the `action` method on the `service` class, with
additional arguments passed in the `args` array.

Whether you distribute a plugin as Java file or as a _jar_ file of its
own, the plugin must be specified in your Cordova-Android
application's `res/xml/config.xml` file. See Application Plugins for
more information on how to use the `plugin.xml` file to inject this
`feature` element:

        <feature name="<service_name>">
            <param name="android-package" value="<full_name_including_namespace>" />
        </feature>

The service name matches the one used in the JavaScript `exec` call.
The value is the Java class's fully qualified namespace identifier.
Otherwise, the plugin may compile but still be unavailable to Cordova.

## Plugin Initialization and Lifetime

One instance of a plugin object is created for the life of each
`WebView`. Plugins are not instantiated until they are first
referenced by a call from JavaScript, unless `<param>` with an `onload`
`name` attribute is set to `"true"` in `config.xml`. E.g.:

    <feature name="Echo">
        <param name="android-package" value="<full_name_including_namespace>" />
        <param name="onload" value="true" />
    </feature>

Plugins should use the `initialize` method for their start-up logic.

    @Override
    public void initialize(CordovaInterface cordova, CordovaWebView webView) {
        super.initialize(cordova, webView);
        // your init code here
    }

## Writing an Android Java Plugin

A JavaScript call fires off a plugin request to the native side, and
the corresponding Java plugin is mapped properly in the `config.xml`
file, but what does the final Android Java Plugin class look like?
Whatever is dispatched to the plugin with JavaScript's `exec` function
is passed into the plugin class's `execute` method. Most `execute`
implementations look like this:

        @Override
        public boolean execute(String action, JSONArray args, CallbackContext callbackContext) throws JSONException {
            if ("beep".equals(action)) {
                this.beep(args.getLong(0));
                callbackContext.success();
                return true;
            }
            return false;  // Returning false results in a "MethodNotFound" error.
        }

The JavaScript `exec` function's `action` parameter corresponds to a
private class method to dispatch with optional parameters.

When catching exceptions and returning errors, it's important for the
sake of clarity that errors returned to JavaScript match Java's
exception names as much as possible.

## Threading

The plugin's JavaScript does _not_ run in the main thread of the
`WebView` interface; instead, it runs on the `WebCore` thread, as
does the `execute` method.  If you need to interact with the user
interface, you should use the following variation:

        @Override
        public boolean execute(String action, JSONArray args, final CallbackContext callbackContext) throws JSONException {
            if ("beep".equals(action)) {
                final long duration = args.getLong(0);
                cordova.getActivity().runOnUiThread(new Runnable() {
                    public void run() {
                        ...
                        callbackContext.success(); // Thread-safe.
                    }
                });
                return true;
            }
            return false;
        }

Use the following if you do not need to run on the main interface's
thread, but do not want to block the `WebCore` thread either:

        @Override
        public boolean execute(String action, JSONArray args, final CallbackContext callbackContext) throws JSONException {
            if ("beep".equals(action)) {
                final long duration = args.getLong(0);
                cordova.getThreadPool().execute(new Runnable() {
                    public void run() {
                        ...
                        callbackContext.success(); // Thread-safe.
                    }
                });
                return true;
            }
            return false;
        }

## Echo Android Plugin Example

To match the JavaScript interface's _echo_ feature described in
Application Plugins, use the `plugin.xml` to inject a `feature`
specification to the local platform's `config.xml` file:

        <platform name="android">
            <config-file target="config.xml" parent="/*">
                <feature name="Echo">
                    <param name="android-package" value="org.apache.cordova.plugin.Echo"/>
                </feature>
            </config-file>
        </platform>

Then add the following to the
`src/org/apache/cordova/plugin/Echo.java` file:

        package org.apache.cordova.plugin;

        import org.apache.cordova.CordovaPlugin;
        import org.apache.cordova.CallbackContext;

        import org.json.JSONArray;
        import org.json.JSONException;
        import org.json.JSONObject;

        /**
         * This class echoes a string called from JavaScript.
         */
        public class Echo extends CordovaPlugin {

            @Override
            public boolean execute(String action, JSONArray args, CallbackContext callbackContext) throws JSONException {
                if (action.equals("echo")) {
                    String message = args.getString(0);
                    this.echo(message, callbackContext);
                    return true;
                }
                return false;
            }

            private void echo(String message, CallbackContext callbackContext) {
                if (message != null && message.length() > 0) {
                    callbackContext.success(message);
                } else {
                    callbackContext.error("Expected one non-empty string argument.");
                }
            }
        }

The necessary imports at the top of the file extends the class from
`CordovaPlugin`, whose `execute()` method it overrides to receive
messages from `exec()`.  The `execute()` method first tests the value
of `action`, for which in this case there is only one valid `echo`
value.  Any other action returns `false` and results in an
`INVALID_ACTION` error, which translates to an error callback invoked
on the JavaScript side.

Next, the method retrieves the echo string using the `args` object's
`getString` method, specifying the first parameter passed to the
method.  After the value is passed to a private `echo` method, it is
parameter-checked to make sure it is not `null` or an empty string, in
which case `callbackContext.error()` invokes JavaScript's error
callback.  If the various checks pass, the `callbackContext.success()`
passes the original `message` string back to JavaScript's success
callback as a parameter.

## Android Integration

Android features an `Intent` system that allows processes to
communicate with each other.  Plugins have access to a
`CordovaInterface` object, which can access the Android `Activity`
that runs the application.  This is the `Context` required to launch a
new Android `Intent`.  The `CordovaInterface` allows plugins to start
an `Activity` for a result, and to set the callback plugin for when
the `Intent` returns to the application.

As of Cordova 2.0, Plugins can no longer directly access the
`Context`, and the legacy `ctx` member is deprecated. All `ctx`
methods exist on the `Context`, so both `getContext()` and
`getActivity()` can return the required object.

## Debugging Android Plugins

Eclipse allows you to debug plugins as Java source included in the
project.  Only the latest version of the Android Developer Tools
allows you to attach source code to _JAR_ dependencies, so this
feature is not yet fully supported.
